# bubbles_reddit_post_sentiment

For the 88-275 Group Hackathon, our group chose to tackle the phenomenon of Reddit and how it serves as a echo chamber and reinforces cognitive biases. We also wanted to explore the concept of the troll in information cascades, which in this case is the information platform Reddit. 

Question: How do people react to different information that goes against and for their beliefs in a community of like-minded individuals? How does this differ when the information is presented in a community of people the information is most affected by versus a community of more diverse people?

Hypothesis: Depending on the topic the information pertains to, which varies based on how tied it is to their core identity, responses may vary. We predict a high level of engagement with information that is on either end of the spectrum. 

Procedure:
- Searched for various subreddits of varying degrees of specificity (general vs "identity"/specific) in different topics
- Posted neutral, positive, or negative sentiment posts (generated by ChatGPT) to gauge reactions
- Recorded metrics of engagement (post upvote rate, comment upvotes, comment word count) and used ChatGPT for sentiment analysis of the degree of sentiment and the degree of hostility of the comments
- Performed data analysis on the overall data to reach conclusions

Conclusion
- As expected, disagreement posts garner negativity and agreement posts garner positivity. Neutral is mixed.
- Reactions are much more polarized in “identity” subreddits as opposed to more general subreddits
- Posts that are in agreement or disagreement have higher engagement than neutral posts 
- Among all the pooled disagreement posts, there were far more accusations of the post being written by generative AI as opposed to agreement posts

Limitations and Further Commentary
- Directly copying posts from ChatGPT was not effective as their style of writing is too easily recognizable despite prompting it to write like a Reddit user
- Auto-moderation in subreddits prevented posting, causing small sample size => allocate more time for data collection
- ChatGPT sentiment analysis was found inaccurate at times => use pre-built model trained for sentiment analysis?
- Difficult to objectively make agree/neutral/disagree posts ==> more familiarity with topic and personally generated posts could be more effective
- Other topics & other forums - more trial and error required 





